README.md, before:

# AxeML

AxeML is a notation for Nokogiri XML documents inspired by [SXML](http://okmij.org/ftp/Scheme/SXML.html).

## Installation

    gem install axeml

## Syntax

A document is represented by an array, possibly nested. The first
element of each array must be a symbol indicating the node
name. Further elements may either be strings or numbers which are
treated as the node's content, hashes representing this node's
attributes or further arrays which are then made into child nodes by
the same rules.

The syntax can be described by the following grammar:

    node       ::= [<node-name>, (<node> | <attributes> | <content>) ...]
    node-name  ::= <Symbol>
    attributes ::= <Hash>
    content    ::= <String> | <Fixnum> | <Float>


## Example

    AxeML.transform([:ul, { :class => 'menu' },
                     [:li, [:a, { :href => '/foo' }, 'foo']],
                     [:li, [:a, { :href => '/bar' }, 'bar']]]).to_s

    =>

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <ul class="menu">
      <li>
        <a href="/foo">foo</a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="/bar">bar</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    

Note that since `AxeML.transform` returns an instance of
`Nokogiri::XML::Document` you can directly use its search facilities,
for example:

    AxeML.transform([:foo, [:bar, [:baz, "very well"]]]).search('foo baz').text
    => "very well"

    
## ToDo

* actually implement transformation rules :-)
* support XML namespaces

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Moritz Heidkamp. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

document support for html_safe in README

README.md, after:

# AxeML

AxeML is a notation for Nokogiri XML documents inspired by [SXML](http://okmij.org/ftp/Scheme/SXML.html).

## Installation

    gem install axeml

## Syntax

A document is represented by an array, possibly nested. The first
element of each array must be a symbol indicating the node
name. Further elements may either be strings or numbers which are
treated as the node's content, hashes representing this node's
attributes or further arrays which are then made into child nodes by
the same rules. Instances of `ActiveSupport::SafeBuffer` (i.e. strings
marked as `html_safe`) are injected without quoting.

The syntax can be described by the following grammar:

    node       ::= [<node-name>, (<node> | <attributes> | <content>) ...]
    node-name  ::= <Symbol>
    attributes ::= <Hash>
    content    ::= <String> | <Fixnum> | <Float> | <ActiveSupport::SafeBuffer>


## Example

    AxeML.transform([:ul, { :class => 'menu' },
                     [:li, [:a, { :href => '/foo' }, 'foo']],
                     [:li, [:a, { :href => '/bar' }, 'bar']]]).to_s

    =>

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <ul class="menu">
      <li>
        <a href="/foo">foo</a>
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="/bar">bar</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    

Note that since `AxeML.transform` returns an instance of
`Nokogiri::XML::Document` you can directly use its search facilities,
for example:

    AxeML.transform([:foo, [:bar, [:baz, "very well"]]]).search('foo baz').text
    => "very well"

    
## ToDo

* actually implement transformation rules :-)
* support XML namespaces

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Moritz Heidkamp. See LICENSE for details.
